data-depin/depin-architecture.mdx, before:

---
title: 'The Overall Architecture'
description: 'The DePIN for hyperscale AI dataset'
icon: 'layer-group'
---

## From Scale to Hyperscale

While traditional cloud services offer scalability, MIZU's Data Decentralized Physical Infrastructure Network (DePIN) delivers true hyperscale capabilities. By leveraging our innovative data DePIN, we can seamlessly merge and host vast amounts of data at an exceptionally low cost. This groundbreaking approach empowers any data provider to effortlessly contribute to the MIZU data network. Simply by running a MIZU data node and importing their data, providers can become part of this expansive ecosystem, pushing the boundaries of data scale and accessibility.

## The Architecture

<img
  className="block dark:hidden"
  src="/images/depin-architecture.png"
  alt="Hero Light"
/>

### Data Hosting Network

Data from various sources is consolidated, hosted, and served by high-capacity data hosting nodes. One has to buy license and stake MIZU token to run a data hosting node.

#### Reward Strategy

Data providers are incentivized through a comprehensive three-metric system. The first metric, new data imported, encourages continuous data growth and fresh inputs. The second, total data hosted, rewards the scale and breadth of data maintained. The third, data query frequency, prioritizes high-quality, relevant data that meets user needs. This balanced approach optimizes for data growth, scale, and quality simultaneously, ensuring a robust and valuable data ecosystem.

### Data Validator Network

Data validator nodes validate the integrity of data hosted by data hosting nodes. One has to buy the license and stake/re-stake to run a verifier node. The validation rules could found at the [data validation section](http://localhost:3000/data-depin/data-validation).

### Data Processing Network

Data processing network augment data hosting network by assisting in the processing of imported data. Any edge device, including mobile devices and laptops, can join our edge network as data processing node. The details of the data processing network could be found at [the edge network section](http://localhost:3000/edge-network/architecture).

Commit message:

update docs to reflect the data processing network narrative

data-depin/depin-architecture.mdx, after:

---
title: 'The Overall Architecture'
description: 'The DePIN for hyperscale AI dataset'
icon: 'layer-group'
---

## From Scale to Hyperscale

While traditional cloud services offer scalability, MIZU’s Data Decentralized Physical Infrastructure Network (DePIN) delivers true hyperscale capabilities. By leveraging our innovative data DePIN, we enable seamless and ultra-low-cost data processing at scale. This groundbreaking approach empowers anyone with a device to contribute to the MIZU data network by running a MIZU processing node. Participants can handle tasks like querying, crawling, cleaning, and classification, becoming an integral part of this expansive ecosystem that redefines data accessibility and affordability.

## The Architecture

<img
  className="block dark:hidden"
  src="/images/depin-architecture.png"
  alt="Hero Light"
/>

### **Super Node Network**

MIZU's super nodes consolidate, index, and manage data from various sources. They split and dispatch tasks across the edge network, serving as the coordination layer that powers scalable and efficient data processing.

### Data Processing Network

Data processing network augment data hosting network by assisting in the processing of imported data. Any edge device, including mobile devices and laptops, can join our edge network as data processing node. The details of the data processing network could be found at [the edge network section](http://localhost:3000/edge-network/architecture).

### Data Validator Network

Data validator nodes validate the integrity of data processed by data processing nodes. One has to buy the license and stake/re-stake to run a verifier node. The validation rules could found at the [data validation section](http://localhost:3000/data-depin/data-validation).
